--- 
layout: post
title: Goals for 2010
date: 2009-12-31 16:16:04 +00:00
description: Wherein I outline my goals for 2010, as I'm quite a driven person and like to have something to aim for. Come this time next year I'll be doing a recap on this, to see how miserably I've failed.
---
Because I'm feeling very optimistic about what next year has to bring, I've put together a list of things I want to achieve. In no particular order, they are:


h3. Release a jQuery plugin

I started making a very basic jQuery colour swatch earlier in the year, but it went on the back-burner before I managed to perfect it. I'll definitely be releasing this as a jQuery plugin and hopefully some other cool stuff in 2010

h3. Do a bungee jump

This has been a life goal of mine for some time now

h3. Complete the Great North Run

My main reason for this is to get fit and start jogging again. Every year I feel guilty that people travel from all over the globe to participate in the Great North Run, though I haven't took part once and its on my front doorstep

h3. Learn GWT

There's no denying that Google make the best web applications. Since all of their products are leveraged by the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Web_Toolkit">Google Web Toolkit(GWT)</a>, I want to try my hand at it

h3. Start eating fruit

This may seem surprising but before mid-2008 I ate no fruit and maybe two vegetables. In 2009 I made a conscious attempt to start eating veg and now I can't get enough of it. Here's to hoping my efforts in 2010 won't be fruitless ;)

h3. Read a new book every 2 weeks

There's a plethora of stuff I find interesting and want to read

h3. Blog more often

If your running a blog and not publishing at least 2 quality articles a week this is a given

h3. Go to a web conference

Now I've been in the industry a year, I'd really like to attend a tech conference as I think I would benefit from the experience in many ways. Nothing as ostentatious as <a href="http://sxsw.com/interactive">SXSW</a> but maybe something like <a href="http://www.whatisdibi.com/">DIBI</a> or <a href="http://www.thinkingdigital.co.uk/">Thinking Digital</a>

h3. Visit Berlin

Stooped in history and a place I don't think you'd ever get bored of, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berlin">Berlin</a> will be a fantastic holiday destination

h3. Pickup golf

I went to the driving range for the first time in about 5 years the other day and thoroughly enjoyed myself.</p><p>In his retirement my grandfather has really started to take golf seriously, so I reckon I'll always have someone to play against and be able to pick up a few tips from along the way. Maybe even some old clubs if I'm lucky

h3. Release a web application as a side-project

I know I can, I just wanna see if I can <a href="http://crushitbook.com/">Crush It!</a> like Gary. If all goes to plan it will probably be made using GWT

h3. Start learning Spanish

Because no goals are ever complete without learning a new language


In true <a href="http://www.fourhourworkweek.com/blog/">Tim Ferriss</a> fashion, a few of these are a bit *out there, but I don't think any are unachievable.

However small or grand, what's your ambitions for 2010? I'd really like to hear about them :)
