--- 
layout: post
title: Gowalla - where's my ROI?
date: 2010-11-08 20:31:42 +00:00
description: I've been making considerable use of location based service Gowalla for the past few months now. In all of that time, I have yet to find it provides any value to me.
---
<p>I first signed up to <a href="http://gowalla.com/">Gowalla</a> early this year, but left my account untouched, just to see whether any of location based services would catch on.</p>

<p>Fast forward to August, and for some reason I felt the urge to give Gowalla a try, in the hopes that it would compliment my other social media outlets.</p>

<p>I opted for Gowalla over the <a href="http://foursquare.com/">other one</a> out of my respect for <a href="http://maxvoltar.com/">Tim Van Damme's</a> work. I've been a follower of Tim's work for some time now and his freelance stuff on Gowalla's website is very nice. Because of this I figured Gowalla would at least be aesthetically pleasing. A few minutes later I downloaded the iPhone app and away I went.</p>

<p>Over the past few months, I've checked in a whole bunch of times, added friends, earned a few badges and even added some new spots. However there's one question that I seem to be asking myself lately, now that I've used Gowalla for a considerable amount of time.</p>

<h3>What value is Gowalla providing?</h3>

<p>It turns out, <strong>absolutely nothing!</strong></p>

<p>As far as I'm concerned, Gowalla is a <strong>one-way broadcast</strong>, with <strong>no interaction between users</strong>. There's <strong>nothing new to discover</strong> and the game mechanics are <strong>quite pathetic</strong>.</p>

<p>I'm close to deleting the app and leaving my account to expire, but before I do, I wanted to get a feel for other peoples opinions of Gowalla, and location based services in general. Are you finding they have any utility?</p>
