--- 
layout: post
title: "Project: Nearest Cineworld"
date: 2011-04-07
description: I decided to put my Cineworld gem to good use, using the HTML5 geolocation API to find your Nearest Cineworld.
---

As an avid cinema goer, I'm always checking the "Cineworld":http://cineworld.co.uk website to see whats showing at my local venue. Because I tend not to bookmark "anything locally":http://pinboard.in/u:damian, I get sick of having to go to their site, clicking the Cinemas tab, finding Boldon Tyne & Wear in the dropdown and so on.

Fortunately they have a nice API, around which I created a wrapper, in the form of the "cineworld gem":/posts/ruby-gem-cineworld. It also turns out I like making things for the web(kind of fitting being my day job and all). So I thought this would be an ideal opportunity to throw together a quick mashup leveraging the html5 geolocation API(which is a bit flakey btw), and some CSS3 webkit transforms to build the "Nearest Cineworld":http://nearest-cineworld.co.uk.

To get a feel for what is going on behind the scenes(massive props to "TMDb":http://www.themoviedb.org/ btw), I'm going to be open-sourcing the app, so make sure to friend me "on Github":http://github.com/damian and keep an eye out.

"Give it a try":http://nearest-cineworld.co.uk, and let me know in the comments what you think, and more importantly if it doesn't work(which is quite likely).

*Note:* I haven't done any browser testing / graceful degredation on it, and to be fair I'm not going to.
